One of the main skills or competencies
that a entrepreneur, or really
any entrepreneur, or
even anyone, should have,
is to be able to communicate
or sell well your project
or your business.
In this case, I am not talking
about selling it to potential
customers.
We are not talking about marketing
in this case.
We are talking about selling it to the ecosystem.
What do I mean by this?
You can find a potential investor,
a journalist, etc.
It really acquires the ability to communicate
in an attractive way and that your
project or your company is well understood
to the rest of the world, basically.
And what I want you to keep in
mind is that you will put this into
practice on a daily basis, permanently.
Even at any stage of the company,
from the moment the idea comes
to your head the first day and you
want to convince a friend of yours
because you want to be the
co-founder, for example, or if you
want to tell your family and they
think you're not crazy, until you
have a company that has 300
employees and bills a lot of millions
and you want to raise money
from a venture capital
or want to sell it, for example.
As it is, it's a skill you'
ll always use,
regardless of the stage you'
re in.
And another thing you have to keep
in mind is that it's very
important, it's vital.
The impact that it really has to be
able to communicate well is enormous,
because permanently if you are doing
well you will be opening doors
or opportunities and if
you are doing bad you will be
closing them and I tell you it
for personal experience.
We receive, it is an example, but
we receive very many proposals for
projects for different reasons,
because they want us to value
the investment or because they
want advice for thousands
of reasons.
Well, I tell you that the difference
between receiving a proposal,
it does not matter whether it is by
email, in a presentation, on a LinkedIn,
on a personal level, in a phone
call, it does not matter.
The difference between the
project being well communicated,
being easy to understand, being
worth it, etc., being no effort
to understand it, being aesthetic.
The difference between that, on
the contrary, is that you directly
pay attention or don't pay attention.
And you also have to remember that
really learning to do it right
is easy.
We will learn in the next
few days.
We will learn to make learning the
structure that must be followed.
It is easy.
The complicated thing is that you
have an interesting project,
that your business really
is invertible, that it is scalable, etc.
That's the hard thing, but
learning to communicate well
is much easier.
So we have to make the effort,
because as I said, the impact
will be huge.
The next point is that we
have to be aware of what
we have to work on.
We have to learn the goal.
The general goal is to learn how
to communicate or sell our project
better in different circumstances.
What are these circumstances?
What is it we have to work on?
I have categorized them in
four mainly, which we will
go learning to do each of them.
I think we have to be able
to have a good pitch of the elevator
presencial.
That is, we must be able to communicate
in an attractive and verbal,
indirect way, our
project.
This is often called the elevator
pitch or the elevator pitch.
We may be talking about
different circumstances, it can
be longer or shorter, but we
have to have that ability.
When will we use it?
All the day.
You will use it all
day long.
You'll be telling your project thousands
of times, informally, at a dinner with
friends, when they introduce you to
someone, or at a meeting, a supplier
arrives at the office, or a potential
collaborator, or someone you want
to hire, or you're at
a networking event, or you'
re presented with a potential
investor.
You will have to constantly communicate
your project.
You have to know how to do it
well, you have to have the structure
well prepared, the message
and structure in your head,
to do it naturally, to
do it attractively, etc.
This is the elevator pitch.
We also have to write
an elevator pitch.
That in the background is very similar
to the previous one, but in writing
you will use it many times.
You send an email, or for example
in your LinkedIn profile in many
occasions, we should have an elevator
pitch, or maybe a one liner or
a short paragraph, one or several
phrases in which what we are
doing is communicate in an
attractive way our project.
And it has to follow the same
structure as the elevator pitch,
which we will learn.
One of the things that many people
are concerned about is the pitch
deck.
This is the presentation.
It is sometimes called a pitch deck and sometimes
it is called a deck.
It is actually the presentation, which
is sometimes known as a business
plan.
We will have to work very
well on this.
We'll leave you several templates in
PowerPoint so you can directly pick
them up, adapt them, etc.,
because I think that helps
a lot.
One of the important parts here is that
it is very aesthetic.
When will we use it?
You will use it on
many occasions.
You will use it, you will send
it, you will send it because you will
be asked for it thousands of times,
and you will also have to
present it live.
Imagine I put you in two circumstances.
You have to go to a meeting
with potential investors.
Well, because your thing is that you take
the presentation on the computer to
project what it is and you will
have to present it yourself.
Sometimes you will have to...
This presentation will be
accompanied by your presence and other
times what you will do is directly send it.
Finally, you should also work
out some financial projections.
This makes more sense when you
have a certain traction.
At first, the numerical part of
the business plan really I think
is not very important because
to start with no one will believe
it.
Because usually the projections
you make, you will have
to review them constantly.
But it is good that you are able
to generate financial projections
that demonstrate some financial knowledge,
that they are not excessively
shitty and that they also make
you understand a little better
where you want to get.
As we have seen, they are...
We will work on four possible circumstances
or four supports and in all of
them what we have to work on
is the...
We need to work on aesthetics,
especially in the presentation.
We have to work on the structure,
the script, we're going to learn
how to do it and we're going to work
on the content, which is what you're
going to communicate.
And finally, what I'm going to give
you now is a series of tips that
are what kind of content you should
include, how you should
relate to investors in general.
And that they are advice that you
should apply to all these
circumstances that we have seen, to
all these supports.
And they are advice that starts
from our professional experience
and are advice that starts from
the criteria that investors have.
The first of them, remember that
investors always say they invest
in people, invest in the team,
they'll care almost more about
who you are and why your
project.
Therefore, you have to give much importance
to this, you have to put in value
who you are, you have to put
in value the team and an important
topic and a advice is that you
talk about your story, that
you value the storytelling, that
you tell why, that you tell why
you have decided to mount
that project, why, what is what
has led you to it, that you open
up so that the investor understands
you, understand why you are
deciding to do this, what
are your motivations.
Another important thing is to remember
that the size of the market is very important.
You have in mind that in this world
we mainly talk about investors
who seek high returns
and who assume high risks.
So they are looking for projects
in which they can revaluate
their investment, multiply
it, for example, by 10.
So you have to make him dream,
you have to think big.
You have in mind that the projects
in which you will grow little
in the coming years are projects
that may get funding elsewhere,
in a bank, for example, but
are not interesting projects
for this type of professional
investors in the world
of startups.
So you have to think big, you
have to delude the investor,
because otherwise it won'
t go in.
You have to think big, but
you have to be very realistic.
I have often said that one of the
main mistakes that entrepreneurs
make is that they fall in love
with their idea and lose objectivity
and are unable to identify
the risks.
You have to remember that your
perspective and that of the investor
is completely different, it
is radically different.
The investor has seen thousands
of projects like yours that in the
vast majority have failed or have not
come or have done.
You are in love with your idea, you
perceive that there is no risk, that
you will succeed, and the investor
sees it from a completely
different perspective.
Therefore, it is convenient that you
be realistic, that you are able to
identify the risks and that you are
transparent with this.
Why is?
Because if the investor perceives that
you do not have that ability, that
you have lost objectivity, you will
awaken many alarms in the investor.
Another advice is to be
absolutely honest, very transparent
and very honest in what you are
good, in what you are bad, because
this makes you connect much
better with the investor or
with your interlocutor in
any circumstance.
When we are sincere, transparent
and direct, we connect
much better, when we take away
the caretaps.
In addition, keep in mind, as I
told you, that the investor
almost develops, professional
investors have developed almost
a superpower and they are able
to see a lot more, because they
have seen a lot of entrepreneurs,
they have seen a lot
of projects.
Therefore, it is best that you expose
yourself in a very natural, very direct
and very sincere way.
And finally, as long as you can
teach the product, as long as
you can, the more you can
tangibly tangible the facts than
the words.
So, if you can carry a model,
if you can carry a demo, everything
you can demonstrate helps
a lot to decrease risk
perception.
If you go to an investor with a power
point, that's just an idea you put
on a presentation, because
the perception of risk is much
bigger than if you've worked
on the product, than if you
can teach something.